
Sample critique
===============

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of Russell and Norvig text                    Instructor: Prof. Russell

Chapter 4
Student: Dilly Gent



--------------------- TYPOS, GRAMMATICAL ERRORS, ETC. ------------------------

p.1, title:

> Heuristically Informed search

	Should be "Search" not "search" (or "Informed" should be
	"informed"!).

p.1, para.-2

> If the evaluation function is omniscient than

	Should be "then".

p.2, para.1

> the cheapest path from n to the goal  where h stands for heuristic

	Should be only one space between "goal" and "where".

p.3, para.-2

> The next step is to expand SB, generating SAG

	Should be "generating SBG".

p.10, para.-4

	The last sentence of the paragraph ends abruptly in the
	middle!

p.13, para.-3

> One never need to back up

	Should be either "One never needs to back up" or "One never
	need back up".


-------------- VISUAL LAYOUT, STYLE OF PARTICULAR PHRASES, ETC. --------------

General point on visual layout:

       Many of the longer italic names in mathematical equations etc look
       ugly (uneven spacing etc.). Is there some way to fix this?

p.1, para.-2

> function Best-FirstSearch

	Awkward, even though the phrase "best-first search" is used
	elsewhere; the name of the function should be either
	"Best-First-Search" or "BestFirstSearch".

p.2, para.1

> it is not perfectly optimal

	Isn't this redundant?  Should be just "optimal".

p.4, last three equations: 

	It would be nice to have them better aligned (say, with all
	three "=" signs in the same column) rather than just to have
	each of them individually centered.

p.5, para.-1

> But the only way there could be an infinite number of paths is
> either (a) there is a node with an infinite branching factor, or (b)
> there is an infinitely long path.

	Awkward; should probably read: "But the only ways that there
	could be an infinite number of paths are that (a) there is a
	node with an infinite branching factor, or (b) there is an
	infinitely long path."


p.6, para.-2

> an infinitely long path formed from repeated application of operator
> (3)

	Should be "formed by" instead of "formed from"

p.7, Figure 4.7:

	Should have more vertical distance between the two pictures of
	positions in the 8-puzzle.

p.8, para.-2

> when h_2(n)=14, the real distance to the goal is h * (n) = 18 90% of
> the time.

	Juxtaposing two numerals that are not part of the same
	equation is confusing, and there's also a typo (too many
	spaces in h * (n)).  Should be something more like "when
	h_2(n) = 14, then 90% of the time the real distance to the
	goal is h*(n) = 18."

p.10, para.2-3

	Should choose either "hill climbing" or "hill-climbing" (as an
	adjective; "hill climbing" seems clearly preferable as a noun)
	and stick to it, rather than varying randomly.

p.10-11:

	Figure 4.9 should not interrupt the text of the pseudocode for
	Algorithm SMA*, which starts on p.10.  Also, the text for
	the figure should be given wider margins to make it clearer
	that it is not part of the main text.  This might also be done
	for other figures.

p.11, Figure 4.9:

	The shading makes it difficult to read the symbols within the
	shaded area.

p.13, para.1

	Unclear what "a short along the roads" is.  This may be a
	British idiom which will be incomprehensible to American
	readers.

p.13, para.2

	Should probably be "back up" instead of "backup" here.


------------------------------- FIGURES --------------------------------------

p.6:

	The same letters (S and G) should not be used to name nodes in
	both figures on this page, since that confuses the reader who
	sees references to them in the text.

The chapter badly needs figures showing the progress of each of the
search algorithms as they solve a given problem. It's very hard to
picture their behavior from the text.

p.7, Figure 4.6:

	This figure is rather vague. What state space is drawn here?
        What is the "T=27" referred to in the caption?

Summary section: Maybe a visual chart of some kind of
classification of search methods might be desirable here (or in
Section 4.1).


------------------------- CONTENT AND OVERALL STYLE --------------------------

Section 4.1:

The pseudocode could be somewhat clearer and less terse.

Section 4.1.1:

It's rather surprising to see it stated that the heuristic function
takes a node as argument, rather than a state (first paragraph), and
to see greedy search using a heuristic which can actually have
different values for different nodes corresponding to the same state,
namely, the negative of the path length (last paragraph).  I thought
all information about paths was supposed to be captured in g, and h
was supposed to depend only on the state.

Section 4.1.4:

"Informal proofs" that aren't really proofs can be very confusing to
the reader, who never knows just how convincing a given step is
supposed to be.  If he/she doesn't understand why a step is supposed
to be valid, is that because his/her understanding of the proof is
deficient, or because the step really *isn't* valid?  It might be best
to give a fully rigorous proof, or at least to point out, explicitly,
exactly what is being assumed without proof and exactly where such
assumptions are being used.

Pseudocode for A* might be given (or a reference to more detailed
pseudocode for general best-first search, given on a revised version
of the first page of the chapter).

It might be best to give a general definition of "monotonic" so that
the concept is understood by those who have never seen it before,
rather than just a definition of the term as applied to the problem at
hand.

Section 4.2:

It might be desirable to give a full-dress example of A* in action
(maybe a pseudo-trace of a few steps of A* solving an instance of the
8-puzzle).  This section shows a problem that A* could work on and
some heuristics that it could use, but doesn't actually show A* in
action.

The point made in the last sentence (that of two admissible
heuristics, the one with higher values is better) might be stressed
more strongly, in view of its importance.

Section 4.3:

These ideas about automatic invention of heuristics are fascinating
and important, and it might be worthwhile to provide more detail here,
including examples.  This remains true even if some of this material
is covered in later chapters.

Sections 4.4.4 and 4.4.5 (and probably 4.5 when completed):

The level of complexity and sophistication goes up sharply in these
sections and then returns to the previous level in Section 4.6.
Likewise, the discussion suddenly becomes much more terse, and starts
to rely heavily on pseudocode.  It might be best to reorder the
chapter so as to put these sections at the end (perhaps as an appendix
to the chapter), or even to split them off into a chapter of their own
and explain their content at greater leisure.

Section 4.6:

The material in the subsections of this section seems so important
that many of the subsections might deserve to be elevated to the
status of full sections in their own right, and to be drastically
lengthened so as to allow the inclusion of more detail.  If 4.4.4,
4.4.5, and 4.5 are moved into a separate chapter as suggested, then
space would be made available for this kind of expansion of 4.6.  The
topics of Sections 4.6.5 and 4.6.6, in particular, would seem to merit
discussion at much greater length.  (If these topics are already
discussed at great length elsewhere in the book, then explicit
cross-references should be included.)

MA* should be explained so as to make the rationale behind SMA*
clearer.

Section 4.7 (Summary):

More detail might be desirable here, including a full list of all
search methods discussed.  


=============================================================================
